there's no denying the MacBook Air 2020
is a pretty sleek little machine except
for one small flaw instead of doing what
every other laptop manufacturer ever
does and put a fan right next to the CPU
where the majority of the heat is
generated Apple opted to put the fin
data over yonder somewhere leaving the
CPU with only about 10 watts of cooling
capacity to work with how much
performance did they leave on the table
to find out the answer to that we have
collected this bin of cooling apparatus
with everything from upside-down air
things to water cooling pumps to this
tray which you guys might recognize from
our video from several years back water
cooling the original MacBook 2015 by
actually submerging it in water yes my
friends today is gonna be a lot of fun
and it's brought to you by ting why pay
for what you're not going to use with
ting you only pay for the mobile data
that you use and you can learn more at
the link in the video description
to tell if our wacky cooling solutions
are doing anything we will first need to
establish a performance baseline running
our MacBook Air which is a quad-core 8
thread CPU with no AIDS whatsoever I'm
just gonna fire up Intel power gadget
here and you can also see we've got a
quad core 8 thread MacBook Pro 13-inch
running right next to it now it does run
a different CPU but it should give us
some idea of what we might strive for
with a properly cooled chip looking at
the power draw these CPUs our MacBook
Pro starts by shooting up to about 40 45
watts and then dips down closer to 3035
and finishes out the test there so
there's no way that a 25 watt peak CPU
is going to be able to match that in
terms of performance but you can see
that over time we fall down as low as 10
watts so I think we should be able to
close the gap a fair bit here 100
degrees that seems perfectly reasonable
actually they both run at 100 degrees
just this one doesn't have a fan
attached to it
1016 points darn it
about half the speed let's try and close
that gap cooling method number one a
stand well and a fan oh and we're gonna
add a fan to it with that there yeah
that's why the the rubber chummy's are
on it that's pretty cheesy so between 40
and 45 we'll consider that baseline
before we start each test yeah sounds
good that reasonable okay
so here we go 1016 so score to beat
conspiracy theory time tell me I'm wrong
here Apple has been sandbagging the
performance of their Intel based Mac
books for years now so that when they
announce the ARM based Mac books they
can be like BAM it runs it like half the
temperature no no applause nothing all
right
it is amazing how quickly this thing
shoots up to 100 degrees isn't it it's
pretty much instant how can it not love
itself of itself is so hot a goddamn
ltte starcom okay you told me this was
gonna work I don't think this is working
we're down to like 11.6 watts already
so tell me Brandon where do you think
the CPU is I don't know could it be here
no oh yeah 1034 all right well so much
for this idea working hey that's a two
percent increase two percent all right
we're gonna have to get more extreme
let's test number two fan with no bottom
so this is kind of the test where like
if they just put a fan in there this is
how good it before all right with the
unit open we've got a great look at what
we were talking about before so here's
the CPU right under this tiny little
sort of a heatsink so it's got some
little folded metal pins over it it's
like it's a heatsink and then here's the
fan that they went and they they put it
in the laptop so like it has a fan they
just didn't bother to have the fan draw
air over the heatsink to cool the CPU
before exhausting it I don't think
anyone has yet offered up a clear and
believable explanation for why they
would have done this they they went and
they they they put the heatsink
and the fan in there they just didn't
bring them together you know run number
three definitely going slower it's
making its way to a hundred degrees
slower now we're having a look at the
heart of the system here that is almost
10 degrees lower not ten but more than
five for sure
dang MacBook you fly our package power
consumption is higher than last time
which means I'm expecting better
performance but our utilization is only
about 87% and of course we did hit a
hundred degrees here so it looks like it
looks like any way that we are thermally
limited right now why is it asking for
three point four gigahertz it's got a no
it's not going to get that there it is
ten eighty eight whoa what's that like
another four percent but we can do
better so far we've got about an eight
percent uplift in performance over our
stock configuration but that's without
changing out our thermal compound so
that's gonna be the next leg of our
journey we're gonna go with Noctua n th
two thermal compound see I'm pushing
that down flat it seems like it's not
actually designed to sit right against
the die it makes no sense I mean it
makes sense if you want the thermal
performance to not be
as good as it could be do you want to
put it back on and like give it a wiggle
it's not gonna do anything cuz it
doesn't go down far enough see so I can
I can wiggle it all I want but it's it
can't go down any farther see oh shoot
are we taking a trip to the milling
machine I think we have to that's fun I
knew you'd like that
recess those a little bit please don't
ruin it that's the plan
stressed out Alex you and me both they
don't exactly sell this replacement part
on apple.com
have you tried getting the Apple card
maybe they have it then no it's touching
we're going to take this not right here
that controls the depth it's nice and
snug they're gonna back it off just that
much I'm uncomfortable yeah I I was not
thinking we'd be doing this here today
well I guess I can't look
[Applause]
but I can't look away
okay house Lots that's enough
[Applause]
I think that's more than we needed I
hate this why did I buy you this you
know what sucks though alex is well we
might be getting better contact we now
have what I would consider to be a
significant amount less copper on the
heatsink like we didn't remove much but
compared to what's there the worst part
is this was supposed to be the like
reasonable do at a home option we had no
way of knowing that they were gonna have
such a boneheaded I mean I don't want to
call it a flaw because it's clearly
intentional but design decision we use
thermal pads because they allow for
greater tolerances and things like
surface mount components like like a
memory chip to do it with a die like
this where the manufacturing tolerances
are so tight there's no reason for it
that I'm aware of other than just not
wanting it to perform well I don't get
it well I'd say it's just cheaper for
them to make all they had to do was put
a spring on each one of those screws
into a spring mount like everyone else
ever a little little wobble oh yeah that
is way better now we just need to be
careful not to accidentally over tighten
these because that is a definite
possibility if it's not immediately at a
hundred degrees and it's way better
we're still at 17 watts package power
huh and only 90 degrees really okay so
that actually is worse than before with
the fan but the temps were definitely
better so I feel like it might just be
the turbo profile but that's better than
our first run isn't it yeah that's three
percent better even if I'm not sure
exactly what to make of that the show
must go on so let's move on to our next
idea which is expanding the amount of
cooling surface area that the machine
has by putting a thermal pad in between
this heatsink here and the chassis it
actually seems like Apple's using like a
thermal insulator in order to keep the
bottom of the computer cooler so I guess
we're gonna have to pull that off first
yep that goes for it to be clear the
inclusion of this insulator here is
something that I actually oppose the
difference between you know something
being comfortable against your skin and
being literally burned by it is actually
a surprisingly small amount
yeah like 43 degrees is what you shower
at and 46.7 will burn you in 35 minutes
50 degrees will burn you in one minute
okay how how many layers thick should we
go here boys sure why not
we're gonna wing it we might as well
wing it hard these kinds of pads are
hardly the most thermally conductive
material but they're obviously better
than an insulator we're trying to cool
the CPU at the cost of the user so if
the bottom of the chassis gets above 46
degrees then we're bad if it stays below
that the murillo good 40 degrees now
that's a hot bottom no that's actually
fine well it's also not done yet yeah
but like 40 degrees is totally
comfortable well let's see how
comfortable 43 degrees is like a bit
uncomfortable 46 different to bad yet we
are still under 75 degrees what the hell
well you got so little heatsink area and
then you go and spread all that heat out
over this giant piece of aluminum yeah
it makes sense it would do a little
better it did so much better when you
just had the heatsink mounted properly
and it probably has a tiny bit more
mounting pressure now 43.9 it's getting
hot it's getting hot it's a hot bottom
results coming in Alex you ready 11:55
we never cracked 80 degrees that's a 14
percent improvement that is dog freaking
nuts hold on I'm gonna start it running
again just so that it doesn't really get
a chance to cool down too much I want to
see what our hot bottom temperatures
ended up at 46 yeah you're in getting
burned territory now yeah that's that's
too hot that's not comfortable now like
lots of gaming laptops will be hotter
than that on the bottom well I mean it
doesn't have to be like that they could
have put a fan hit yeah that was an
option so much performance left on the
table though it's clear that to reach
our next performance tier we need to do
something about the cooling of the
chassis itself
that is where this comes in yes my
friend that I would like to do a
recreation o of our 2015 experiment
immersing the laptop you really should
not do this in water I don't think we
should do that at all well what's your
brilliant idea the water cool it so I
got this little thing right here off of
Amazon there was $17 Amazon lies yes
you've been shopping on Aliexpress again
it was $17 and it says laptop water
cooling that's it no documentation this
is all that came in the box I think you
can do the job way better than that
cookie sheet right there yeah I'm gonna
go get water for this look it's not like
the thing died last time yeah but like
you can fall off your motorcycle on the
highway and not diet it's me you want to
do it again that is a false equivalency
it wasn't even damaged you could just
you know slide along the road and be
like oh it's fine next time I definitely
won't turn into jam so there's that
really yeah ha you know what I think you
might be right this might actually
perform better than putting it in non
frozen water but we could also put it
directly in frozen water and maybe kill
it big brain time that's what the kids
say right big brain let's just you know
have some safety here safety I see you
didn't even catch my pun safety I see oh
that's chilly boys
is it zero degrees give or take it's
hard to tell because of like emissivity
issues or whatever are you able to see
like a cold spot on the MacBook now it's
chilly ah no it's still hot I mean I'm
sure the bottom is a bit of a different
oh yeah the bottom is a different story
what's the CPU temperature right now
1716 we're sub ambient here we go boys
what's it at it still hits 70 degrees
really oh well yeah it also spiked to 35
watts damn that's way faster than before
temps are 51 and our package power is
over 16 watts still wow it really is a
shame
how aggressively this thing gets
power-limited because even though we're
at 41 and a half degrees right now it's
still all the way down to about 13 watts
package power I'm disappointed I thought
keeping the thermals under control would
net us significantly better performance
this was just power limited yeah did our
pump just stop nope
it ain't flowin fast though I was really
hoping it would stay up in the like 15
to 18 Watts neighborhood and we were
gonna see like a really big performance
jump yeah cuz I said well like 40
degrees now definitely not thermally
limited oh yeah like the top of this
thing is 24 degrees it's cool to the
touch so you can see this look
Alex's hand is actually warmer than the
surface of the laptop hey do you have
less blood flow in your pinky and we
learned a lot of things today just I
didn't expect this I think that none of
the things that we learned today we
expected scores 11:55 so there was no
real benefit from going from just
putting a thermal pad on the CPU that
helps the bottom of the chassis
dissipate heat to putting an ice-cold
water block on the bottom of it that's
disappointing we didn't get the result
that we expected or wanted but we still
learned a lot today one is that the
MacBook Air is going to be in a
completely different performance class
from the MacBook Pro no matter what kind
of cooling you put on it because a even
though they've both got four cores and
eight threads it is a different model of
CPU and be because the MacBook Air just
doesn't have the power delivery
robustness to keep up with allowing that
CPU to really stretch its legs number
two is that the cooling solution on the
MacBook Air is even worse than we
thought to the point where even just
removing a little bit of material from
the already miniscule heat sink gave us
a 20 plus degree improvement in
temperatures while under sustained load
unfortunately like I said we didn't get
the performance improvement that we
wanted from that but that's how she goes
just like she goes into her sponsor ting
there's no contracts no overage fee
and no other carrier tricks do you just
pay a fair price for the talk text and
data that you use each month it's
especially great if you happen to be at
home a lot or on an irregular schedule
because that way you're not paying for
mobile data that you're not going to use
cuz you're gonna be on Wi-Fi all the
time ting gives you complete control
over your account you can set alerts and
caps for every device on your account
and they've got nationwide LTE coverage
on t-mobile Sprint and Verizon so
they've gotten great coverage from coast
to coast almost any phone will work with
ting but you can check your phone's
compatibility at Linus ENCOM we're gonna
have that linked below and if you use
our link you'll also get $25 in free
credit hopefully you guys enjoyed this
video if you like these kinds of wacky
laptop cooling experiments maybe you'd
enjoy our five gigahertz laptop with
like blue Emmett Ron's hooked up to a
shroud blown through the bottom of it
it's a gaming notebook pretty crazy it's
definitely worth the watch I really
wanted to post some crazy performance
numbers today but we just couldn't do it
yeah that's cool yeah it's a 10 degrees
right now get it it's cool